Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to talk about how to render out your scene as a video.
We'll go for that briefly we'll talk about some of the benefits and some of the downsides of doing it
this way.
And in the next lecture we'll have a look at how to do it across multiple computers and making the rendering
a bit safer.
If you're rendering out something it's taking a lot longer to do.
So let's dive into it.
We have our render settings so we've got everything set up we're happy with it.
Now we get to choose on this tab whether or not we're using cycles or we're using eevee it's entirely
up to you both of what we're about to talk about apply to both of these render engines.
And when we get onto the next lecture when we start talking about optimizing that and making it a bit
safer certainly applies with cycles.
But once you get eevee turned up and crank up those settings it can take quite a while to render out
quite a long eevee Render.
The next thing to bear in mind down here is the type of outputs.
So we've got on the first tab we're talking about what the rendering system is that we're using whether
it cycles eevee or indeed any other renderer that you've plugged into blender.
The next tab down talks about the output type.
Let's make this a bit wider so we can have a look.
So here we have the resolution that we're outputting.
I would recommend not going any higher than 10 ATP to be quite honest if your work is that spectacular
that you want to up it's a four K.
Brilliant.
At this point in time even 720 P is absolutely fine.
And remember you're going to probably be sharing it on platforms like Facebook or even with your friends
over something like I message or WhatsApp in which case it's going to be compressed anyway.
So that's something to bear in mind that when you upload a video that's really large both in detail
and resolution the platform you're uploading it to May crunch it down anyway.
So the next bit underneath is the resolution percentage.
And currently it will render out or whatever 25 percent of 10 ATP is that we crank for all the way up
it would definitely be 10 80 and we know that when we do that we can optimize it by turning down but
towards these final steps we want to make sure that we're running at 50 percent or greater.
I'm going to do 100 percent I know on my system.
This animation is not going to take that long.
Now down here this is important.
We've got a bit of dead space here.
Currently our end frame is set to 300.
So by the time we played the you know it's moved through we've landed.
We've then got 10 seconds is that 10 seconds 100 frames.
It's not quite with 30 frames per second we've got about four seconds of dead space at the end of our
animation.
Don't need that maybe from 170 to 200.
We can use.
I think that would be a good space.
So we can even change this figure in the timeline itself over on the top right or indeed here we can
set it to 200 over in the properties Panel time we can see that it's reflected that change over here.
So that's good.
We've truncated everything to the right size.
Okay.
So if we have to scroll down here on the output tab currently we're outputting to a temp folder.
I would suggest changing that to somewhere where you can capture your video.
I'm going to do that now and I as you can see here every other animation I've done so far has come out
as a PMG and we've been able to play it back by going up to the render menu and going to view render.
That's absolutely fine.
But at this point in time I want to output it somewhere where I can view it.
That's entirely up to you where you decide to outputs your stuff.
I personally while I'm doing tests will output to my downloads folder which I often clean up quite regularly.
However in this particular case I'm going to go to my desktop go up a level and let's find my videos
which is just over here.
Okay.
So now we can go ahead and output a video so we can go ahead and click on videos and there we go.
I can go ahead here and give it a name as well so lamp 10 80 and I'm going to call this a test at this
point in time and go ahead and click accept.
So we've set the output destination.
That's good.
We'll talk about some of these options down here the overwrite file extensions etc. in the next lecture
but suffice to say if you overwrite turned on it's not going to prompt you if it already exists it will
overwrite it.
So that's a good thing and a bad thing depending on what you want to do.
So just bear that in mind and I would of course add the file extension too otherwise you're not going
to be able to play it back.
So here comes the crux if we've got a short animation to render out and I would deem this quite short
but short is not just the length of the animation is how long it's going to take you.
If for some reason it stops work at any point your computer crashes.
Perhaps you have a power cut.
We'll deal more with that in the next lecture so we can switch the file format here from PMG.
I would recommend FS MPEG video as we've done earlier on when we were outputting some movies set the
container to MP for that will mean that it's the most compatible outputs.
And personally I would not touch these for the moments later on.
You can dive into details and optimizing for real good quality outputs but whilst we're just practicing
here let's leave them because these are good enough medium quality encoding speed of good I'm sure gonna
save my project there.
Before you go ahead and do any renders I would always recommend saving your project.
The reason is it blend does crash and you've made a lot of tweaks here and there very specific.
You may forget which ones you've done and not be able to get back exactly what you intended.
So you've got everything set up there and what we now can go and do is make a final check 10 ATP.
Yes.
What do we rendering out using we using cycles and I'm going to use my GP you to do this now you may
find that it's quicker using your CPA.
I've run across plenty of situations where that is the case.
It won't be in this instance and then I can go ahead up to the render menu and render animation now
this will take a few moments to do.
In fact we can see here I'm probably going to take all three seconds.
Times 200.
So that's quite a while to wait and I'll see you guys back in a few moments.
Okay so we're all done and that was actually quicker than I suspected.
Now some of you will be thinking at this point.
Hang on a minute Mike.
Look at all the noise in here.
Well to be honest with you I don't mind at this point if you're sharing work like this at this prototype
stage you might still be tweaking things and that I predicted would take about 10 minutes and it wasn't
too far from it.
Now you wouldn't want to spend it let's say we increased the sample count by four with the samples render.
Well you know what that would mean we were waiting for 40 minutes.
That's an awful lot of time to wait for this test render.
Now I've got over on my file system now as you can see here in the videos folder we've got the lamp
180 and we've popped on the end the number of frames in there if we double click that they'll open up
annoyingly on another screen.
Let me bring that across and into the right place.
But here we go.
We've got the six second animation there roughly.
And here we go we can play it back.
And that's brilliant because that's something you can go in share to anybody for critique for feedback
or even yourself.
Now you're viewing it back at full speed there are a couple of things here.
We can see that the lamp itself has gone into the floor slightly.
That's a tweak that we can do.
And I believe at the very beginning let's just have a look here.
Oh look at that.
We've still got somewhere on our scene.
That was one of our control bones if I remember correctly but have a look at that.
That's not what we want.
Here we have something rendering that we didn't want so let's go and fix certainly this problem here.
And later on I can tweak the actual animation itself.
So let's get rid of the render result and switch ourselves back to the main viewport.
Here we go.
So at the very beginning we've got this issue where it's hidden in the viewport kind of left this in
here deliberately because I know some of you will have done this.
Let's go to our outline here.
This is quite a common thing where you leave something in your viewport and didn't realize it at the
time.
Now if I had rendered out quickly let's say number 36 or frame 36 I would've seen it there early on.
So that's one of the benefits there of actually just doing a couple of frames through and I would always
encourage you doing this because it's easier to pick up on stuff like that happening.
So if you do happen to have a problem you can detect it early.
So I'm not sure what this thing on the floor is called.
It'll be one of the things though that we've turned off by I cannot remember which one it's called it's
probably the bone shape.
Look let's turn it on.
Yes.
So here we go the bone shape look.
Now if we turn it off in the rendering settings and also render out we can see it's no longer there.
Now I'm not going to say that mine is a throw away 10 minutes there.
I mean I managed to go grab a coffee but that was a three hour render.
Well you've just blown it and there are a couple of things that we can do to improve that situation.
So this is how I pretty much always render our shorts anything that's going to take me less than five
or 10 minutes to re render if I need to.
All let's say if I was popping out for a bit and it was no real time cost to me if there was something
wrong with the scene then that's fine.
But if something was really important we could break this down into smaller chunks.
That's one option and we can break it down in smaller chunks either with what we're rendering out or
how we're rendering it sounds.
So share your work over in the discussions.
What settings did you use.
How long did it take you to render out your full animation.
Did you use cycles did you use eevee and why did you pick those two.
I've decided to go with cycles to get the realistic lighting in that but I think the next one I might
go ahead and use eevee to do or did you even render out both of them and then compare the differences
remember to show your work and the decisions you chose over in the discussions and I'll see you in the
next lecture.